NEXT-12773 - [NEW] Administration: Add state (#155)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/administration/using-vuex-state.md

# Using Vuex Stores

The Shopware 6 Administration uses [Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/) stores to keep track of complex state, while just adding a wrapper around it.
Learn what Vuex is, how to use it and when to use it from their great [documentation](https://vuex.vuejs.org/).
This guide will show you how to use Vuex as you normally would, through the interfaces provided by the Shopware 6 Administration.

## Prerequisites

All you need for this guide is a running Shopware 6 instance, the files and preferably a registered module. 
Of course you'll have to understand JavaScript and have a basic familiarity with [Vue](https://vuejs.org/) the framework used in the Administration and it's flux library [Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/).

> ## Creating a store
> The creation of a store is the same as in normal Vuex with the only limitation that all stores have to be `namespaced` in order to prevent collisions with other third party plugins or the Shopware 6 Administration itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a store

The creation of a store is the same as in normal Vuex with the only limitation that all stores have to be `namespaced` in order to prevent collisions with other third party plugins or the Shopware 6 Administration itself.
```

The following code snippet is the `namespaced` store we will register later through Shopware to the underlying Vuex.

> It is admittedly rather short and has only one variable called `conetent` and a setter for it, but again this all the same as in Vuex. 

Reviewer: conetent? I guess "content", right?

Author: uhh jes. fixed that

> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: please wrap the examples in `{% code .. %}` blocks

Reviewer: Same for the example further below btw

export default {
    namespaced: true,

    state() {
        return {
            // the state we want to keep track of
            content: ''
        };
    },

    mutations: {
        // a mutation to change the state
        setContent(state, content) {
            state.content = content;
        },
    }
};
```

## Creating the component to use the store

Now that we've created our `namespaced` store, we need to register it to a component to use it.

> This is done through the Shopware object as seen below in the `beforeCreate` [Vue lifecycle hook](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/instance.html#Lifecycle-Diagram).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is done through the [Shopware object](./the-shopware-object.md) as seen below in the `beforeCreate` [Vue lifecycle hook](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/instance.html#Lifecycle-Diagram).
```

> The Shopware object also makes the native Vuex helper functions like [`mapState`](https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/state.html#the-mapstate-helper), [`mapGetters`](https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/getters.html#the-mapgetters-helper), [`mapMutations`](https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/mutations.html#committing-mutations-in-components) and [`mapActions`](https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/actions.html#dispatching-actions-in-components) available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Shopware object also makes the native Vuex helper functions available, like [`mapState`](https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/state.html#the-mapstate-helper), [`mapGetters`](https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/getters.html#the-mapgetters-helper), [`mapMutations`](https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/mutations.html#committing-mutations-in-components) and [`mapActions`](https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/actions.html#dispatching-actions-in-components).
```

The `namespaced` store itself can be accessed through the `Shopware.State.get()` function.

> Learn more about the Shopware object [here](./the-shopware-object.md).

Reviewer 3: As said, I'd reference the Shopware object a bit earlier, and remove it from this line.

```javascript

> // import the template and the `namespaced` store

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// import the template and the namespaced store
```

import template from './store-example.html.twig';
import swagBasicState from './store';

const { Component } = Shopware;

// Access the normal Vuex helper functions through the Shopware Object
const { 
    mapState,
    mapMutations,
} = Shopware.Component.getComponentHelper();

Component.register('swag-basic-state', {
    template,

    beforeCreate() {
        // registering the store to vuex trough the Shopware objects helper function

>         // the first argument is the name the second the previusly imported `namespaced` store

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // the first argument is the name the second the previusly imported namespaced store
```

        Shopware.State.registerModule('swagBasicState', swagBasicState);
    },

    computed: {

>         // the native `mapState` vuex helper function 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // the native mapState vuex helper function 
```

        ...mapState('swagBasicState', [
            'content',
        ])
    },

    methods: {

>         // the native `mapMutations` vuex helper function

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // the native mapMutations vuex helper function
```

        ...mapMutations('swagBasicState', [
          'setContent',
        ]),
    }
});
```

> After we now have registered our `namespaced` store, mapped state and mutations, we now can use them in our components or templates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After we have registered our `namespaced` store, mapped state and mutations, we can now use them in our components or templates.
```

> The below component displays the previously mapped state `content` in a `div` and an `sw-text-field` and mutates the state on the `changed` event of the `sw-text-field`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The component below displays the previously mapped state `content` in a `div` and a `sw-text-field`, mutating the state on the `changed` event of the `sw-text-field`.
```

> # Using Vuex Stores

Reviewer 4: Don't we follow a specific guideline here ?:

```markdown
# Using Vuex Stores

## Overview
[...]

## Prerequisites
```

Author: jes we do the `## Overview` probably got lost somewhere

The Shopware 6 Administration uses [Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/) stores to keep track of complex state, while just adding a wrapper around it.
Learn what Vuex is, how to use it and when to use it from their great [documentation](https://vuex.vuejs.org/).
This guide will show you how to use Vuex as you normally would, through the interfaces provided by the Shopware 6 Administration.

## Prerequisites

All you need for this guide is a running Shopware 6 instance, the files and preferably a registered module. 
Of course you'll have to understand JavaScript and have a basic familiarity with [Vue](https://vuejs.org/) the framework used in the Administration and it's flux library [Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/).

## Creating a store

> The creation of a store is the same as in normal Vuex with the only limitation that all stores have to be `namespaced` in order to prevent collisions with other third party plugins or the Shopware 6 Administration itself.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Creating a store works the same way as it would in standard Vuex with the only limitation being, that all stores have to be `namespaced` in order to prevent collisions with other third party plugins or the Shopware 6 Administration itself.
```

The following code snippet is the `namespaced` store we will register later through Shopware to the underlying Vuex.

> It is admittedly rather short and has only one variable called `content` and a setter for it, but again this all the same as in Vuex.

Reviewer 4: If I unterstood correctly, the `namespaced: true` part is absolutely necessary ? 
Than either write it here again or put a comment in the code example

```suggestion
It is admittedly rather short and has only one variable called `content` and a setter for it, but again this all the same as in Vuex. Beware of the property `namespaced`, though.
```

Author: i'll consult @jleifeld and add a sentence about it

The `namespaced` store itself can be accessed through the `Shopware.State.get()` function.

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/component/store-example/index.js" %}
```javascript
// import the template
import template from './store-example.html.twig';

const { Component } = Shopware;

// Access the normal Vuex helper functions through the Shopware Object
const { 
    mapState,
    mapMutations,
} = Shopware.Component.getComponentHelper();

Component.register('swag-basic-state', {
    template,

    computed: {
        // the native mapState vuex helper function 
        ...mapState('swagBasicState', [
            'content',
        ])
    },

    methods: {
        // the native mapMutations vuex helper function
        ...mapMutations('swagBasicState', [

>           'setContent',

Reviewer 5: indention missing?

        ]),
    }
});
```
{% endcode %}

## Adding a template

After we have registered our `namespaced` store, mapped state and mutations, we can now use them in our components or templates.
The component below displays the previously mapped state `content` in a `div` and a `sw-text-field`, mutating the state on the `changed` event of the `sw-text-field`.

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/component/store-example/store-example.html.twig" %}
```html
<div>

> 	<h1>SW-6 State</h1>

Reviewer 5: Indention tabs but code before is spaces. Unify
